SEO, how many of you have heard about SEO.
Nice, you'd be amazed how
many times I don't hear that,
I'm in rooms like the younger youngins
they don't know anything about SEO.
They haven't heard about SEO,
they don't know why they should
care about SEO they're like
shouldn't SEO go to someone else while
there are whole companies to handle SEO.
SEO is very important because
you want to be able to
optimize your websites for
search is much as possible and
especially where search
engine optimization is going
to be a part of AI within this week,
for Bing, right?
So you need to make sure that your
work is able to get to the top.
When you type your in, it shouldn't be,
what's your name again?
>> Cocowong.
>> Cocowong, so
it should be when they type Cocowong in,
it should not be Cocowong from Little Rock
or Cocowong from Chile or somewhere.
It should be you, right?
That's what you want.
You know what?
This person's, prison,, record picture.
They're like, wait, girl,
she went to jail, nope.
Like, because [LAUGH] I've seen it.
I've seen, like, even it happened to me.
Somebody from Ohio had
their prison thing up.
And I was, that's.
I got to fix my SEOstat.
So you have to think about that when
you think about SEO, you got be first,
like there's like four Jerome
harder ways and I'm first and
I'm sort of point where one Jerome
harder way is now named as he has.
I chase all his stuff online or Jerome
Ramon Hardaway because he's like people
keep reaching out to me thinking I'm you.
And I'm like it we're friends now we
all started a podcast called drove and
drove out of a joke like [LAUGH].
It would have been hilarious like,
it's awesome.
That's how immature I am though.
>> What does SEO look like in practice?
>> SEO looks like in practice.
So let's start from the most
granular situation.
You're a text editor, right?
In your head, there should be a section
where you're adding the words
that you wanna be searched for
when it comes to your text editor.
Or let's say, well, because you're doing
the API, so yours is a little different,
but let's say someone brought up next.JS.
Next.js actually has an SEO like tag page
that only focuses only on
the SEO from that, right?
So, when I'm thinking about SEO,
like for instance,
when I'm with Vets2Code,
I'm looking at the SEO tag,
Next.js component, I'm looking at
those words that we have in there.
They're all about veterans, JavaScript,
they're all about learning how to code.
Software engineering, military spouses,
things of that, these are the words,
keywords that I want to be found for,
when it comes to the Internet, right?
So like that is what,
SEO is at its core, right?
We're using that or
let's say I don't want my site like follow
for SEO because it's not ready, right?
So now I'm on a robots.txt file and
I'm putting a no follow and a robots.txt
because I don't want the I don't want the
Internet to index my site just yet, right.
Things like that.
That's what SEO is essentially.
And there's also like a page,
I think it's called Google Console.
Where you can put your LinkedIn and
have them in a start indexing as well,
search console.
>> So
you can almost think of it as SEO for
a website is kind of like making
your resume ATS ready sort of.
>> Yes, so,
>> It's parsed by the machines correctly
in the right way.
>> Or that is easier to find, right
like and the more backlinks you have,
the higher your SEO is, right.
Like that's one thing that
they don't they took.
The larger the website is and
not more of the back links have they have,
the higher the SEO becomes, right.
That SEO that you see people chase
back links like it's Pokémon.
They're just got to catch them all.
It's like okay that's cool like
you're too going too hard.
Let's back
>> Links
like from somebody else linking, do you?
>> Yeah, someone else linking to them or
another company linking to them,
things of that nature, right?
You wanna try to stay within your brand,
like your brand atmosphere or
your brand ecosystem, and that's where.
There's no SQL really, shines, right,
like if everybody who found that Sukkot
was looking for a veterinarian then
we would have that's horrible SEO.
Even though you know, people were looking
for veterinarians who code I'm like,
why do you need a coded veterinarian?
Are you talking about like
the animal is going in?
I don't understand.
But like that is what we would have to.
That's what we try to we
avoid right with our SEO.
Okay, web performance,
utilizing web performance best practices.
So lazy loading, i.e,
having images load after paint and so
they glow so they don't hold up
the rest of the loading process.
Code splitting, caching, so we have,
how many of us have had experience
with caching a website,
like the first load of pain.
Frst time you pull up a website it moves
a little bit slower but then the second
time you pull it up as fast because it's
already been cached, right, all that data
is already there It just pulls it up,
that was pretty snazzy, right?
So we need to practice and
have those implemented as well.
Those are good web performance, helps
with the speed of the website, helps with
you getting the data and tools and
resources that you need out there faster.
And it's gonna reduce,
it reduces your load times.
Helps your search ranking students so
it goes hand in hand with SEO,
remember speed helps SEO.
Security best practices,
now this starts come into play when
we started doing a lot of things for.
Think of it like when started when our
forms are just starting our databases.
Start even with our light once
we push to live to the web,
this is when security starts
coming to play, right,
I just can't push live to the web and
I have HTTPS, right?
And it's your site on safe,
you're going to get there.
So we're gonna go to your site and it's
going to be, hey, this site is gonna save.
What do you recommend that
you want to continue?
Or you just want to go back, right?
Everybody's saying that pop up happened,
right?
Well, that's because someone's SSL
cert certificate is expired or
they use HTTP protocol instead of HTTPS
protocol, right, like these are all
the things that you have to think of
when you're starting to push to the web.
Now when you're thinking of,
if you're going to have a blog,
you're going to need a database
to store the information, i.e,
the text and
the images of your blog, right?
How do we have to secure that
database with correct passwords and
correct security procedures?
If we're going to have
login authentication forms.
Like if we want anything that the human
being has to interact with the information
in, we're gonna wanna make sure that a,
have Captcha to make sure it's a human,
and b, make sure they can't
do cross-site scripting or
anything else of that nature in our forms.
And C, be able to like not you know send
us spammy content like with a bot, right.
So these are all things that we have to
think about when we're you know building
our websites once we start wanting
people to interact with them and
that's what we want.
We want our websites to be
interacted with people, right?
So just think about that when
you're building your website,
make sure you think of, you keep that in.